---
title: Bistable Network Behavior of Layer I Interneurons in Auditory Cortex
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: "E. Merriam, T. I. Netoff, and M. Banks, “Bistable network behavior
of layer I interneurons in auditory cortex,” J Neurosci, vol. 25, no. 26, pp.
6175–6186, Jun. 2005."
authors: 
 - name: Merriam
 - name: Tay Netoff
 - name: Banks
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0512-05.2005
---

GABAergic interneurons in many areas of the neocortex are mutually connected
via chemical and electrical synapses. Previous computational studies have
explored how these coupling parameters influence the firing patterns of
interneuronal networks. These models have predicted that the stable states of
such interneuronal networks will be either synchrony (near zero phase lag) or
antisynchrony (phase lag near one-half of the interspike interval), depending
on network connectivity and firing rates. In certain parameter regimens, the
network can be bistable, settling into either stable state depending on the
initial conditions. Here, we investigated how connectivity parameters influence
spike patterns in paired recordings from layer I interneurons in brain slices
from juvenile mice. Observed properties of chemical and electrical synapses
were used to simulate connections between uncoupled cells via dynamic clamp. In
uncoupled pairs, action potentials induced by constant depolarizing currents
had randomly distributed phase differences between the two cells. When coupled
with simulated chemical (inhibitory) synapses, however, these pairs exhibited a
bimodal firing pattern, tending to fire either in synchrony or in
antisynchrony. Combining electrical with chemical synapses, prolonging
tau(Decay) of inhibitory connections, or increasing the firing rate of the
network all resulted in enhanced stability of the synchronous state. Thus,
electrical and inhibitory synaptic coupling constrain the relative timing of
spikes in a two-cell network to, at most, two stable states, the stability and
precision of which depend on the exact parameters of coupling.
