---
title: Synchronization in Hybrid Neuronal Networks of the Hippocampal Formation
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: "Theoden I. Netoff, Matthew I. Banks, Alan D. Dorval, Corey D.
Acker, Julie S. Haas, Nancy Kopell and John A. White. Synchronization in Hybrid
Neuronal Networks of the Hippocampal Formation (2005) J Neurophys, 93 (3):
1197-1208."
authors: 
 - name: Tay Netoff
 - name: Matthew Banks
 - name: Chuck Dorval
 - name: Corey Acker
 - name: Julie Haas
 - name: Nancy Kopell
 - name: John White
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1152/jn.00982.2004
---

Understanding the mechanistic bases of neuronal synchronization is a current
challenge in quantitative neuroscience. We studied this problem in two putative
cellular pacemakers of the mammalian hippocampal theta rhythm: glutamatergic
stellate cells (SCs) of the medial entorhinal cortex and GABAergic
oriens-lacunosum-moleculare (O-LM) interneurons of hippocampal region CA1. We
used two experimental methods. First, we measured changes in spike timing
induced by artificial synaptic inputs applied to individual neurons. We then
measured responses of free-running hybrid neuronal networks, consisting of
biological neurons coupled (via dynamic clamp) to biological or virtual
counterparts. Results from the single-cell experiments predicted network
behaviors well and are compatible with previous model-based predictions of how
specific membrane mechanisms give rise to empirically measured synchronization
behavior. Both cell types phase lock stably when connected via homogeneous
excitatory-excitatory (E-E) or inhibitory-inhibitory (I-I) connections.
Phase-locked firing is consistently synchronous for either cell type with E-E
connections and nearly anti-synchronous with I-I connections. With
heterogeneous connections (e.g., excitatory-inhibitory, as might be expected if
members of a given population had heterogeneous connections involving
intermediate interneurons), networks often settled into phase locking that was
either stable or unstable, depending on the order of firing of the two cells in
the hybrid network. Our results imply that excitatory SCs, but not inhibitory
O-LM interneurons, are capable of synchronizing in phase via monosynaptic
mutual connections of the biologically appropriate polarity. Results are
largely independent of synaptic strength and synaptic kinetics, implying that
our conclusions are robust and largely unaffected by synaptic plasticity.
