---
title: "Temporal Coding by Cochlear Nucleus Bushy Cells in DBA/2J Mice with
Early Onset Hearing Loss"
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: "Y. Wang and P. Manis, “Temporal coding by cochlear nucleus bushy
cells in DBA/2J mice with early onset hearing loss,” J Assoc Res Otolaryngol,
vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 412–424, Dec. 2006."
authors: 
 - name: Wang
 - name: Manis
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10162-006-0052-9
---

The bushy cells of the anterior ventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) preserve or
improve the temporal coding of sound information arriving from auditory nerve
fibers (ANF). The critical cellular mechanisms entailed in this process include
the specialized nerve terminals, the endbulbs of Held, and the membrane
conductance configuration of the bushy cell. In one strain of mice (DBA/2J), an
early-onset hearing loss can cause a reduction in neurotransmitter release
probability, and a smaller and slower spontaneous miniature excitatory
postsynaptic current (EPSC) at the endbulb synapse. In the present study, by
using a brain slice preparation, we tested the hypothesis that these changes in
synaptic transmission would degrade the transmission of timing information from
the ANF to the AVCN bushy neuron. We show that the electrical excitability of
bushy cells in hearing-impaired old DBA mice was different from that in young,
normal-hearing DBA mice. We found an increase in the action potential (AP)
firing threshold with current injection; a larger AP afterhyperpolarization;
and an increase in the number of spikes produced by large depolarizing
currents. We also tested the temporal precision of bushy cell responses to
high-frequency stimulation of the ANF. The standard deviation of spikes (spike
jitter) produced by ANF-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) was
largely unaffected in old DBA mice. However, spike entrainment during a 100-Hz
volley of EPSPs was significantly reduced. This was not a limitation of the
ability of bushy cells to fire APs at this stimulus frequency, because
entrainment to trains of current pulses was unaffected. Moreover, the decrease
in entrainment is not attributable to increased synaptic depression.
Surprisingly, the spike latency was 0.46 ms shorter in old DBA mice, and was
apparently attributable to a faster conduction velocity, since the evoked
excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) latency was shorter in old DBA mice as
well. We also tested the contribution of the low-voltage-activated K+
conductance (g (KLV)) on the spike latency by using dynamic clamp. Alteration
in g (KLV) had little effect on the spike latency. To test whether these
changes in DBA mice were simply a result of continued postnatal maturation, we
repeated the experiments in CBA mice, a strain that shows normal hearing
thresholds through this age range. CBA mice exhibited no reduction in
entrainment or increased spike jitter with age. We conclude that the ability of
AVCN bushy neurons to reliably follow ANF EPSPs is compromised in a
frequency-dependent fashion in hearing-impaired mice. This effect can be best
explained by an increase in spike threshold.
