---
title: 'Responses of a Bursting Pacemaker to Excitation Reveal Spatial
Segregation between Bursting and Spiking Mechanisms'
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: 'S. K. Maran, F. H. Sieling, K. Demla, A. A. Prinz, and C. C.
Canavier, “Responses of a bursting pacemaker to excitation reveal spatial
segregation between bursting and spiking mechanisms,” J Comput Neurosci, Mar.
2011.'
authors: 
 - name: Maran
 - name: Sieling
 - name: Demla
 - name: Prinz
 - name: Canavier
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10827-011-0319-y
---

Central pattern generators (CPGs) frequently include bursting neurons that
serve as pacemakers for rhythm generation. Phase resetting curves (PRCs) can
provide insight into mechanisms underlying phase locking in such circuits. PRCs
were constructed for a pacemaker bursting complex in the pyloric circuit in the
stomatogastric ganglion of the lobster and crab. This complex is comprised of
the Anterior Burster (AB) neuron and two Pyloric Dilator (PD) neurons that are
all electrically coupled. Artificial excitatory synaptic conductance pulses of
different strengths and durations were injected into one of the AB or PD somata
using the Dynamic Clamp. Previously, we characterized the inhibitory PRCs by
assuming a single slow process that enabled synaptic inputs to trigger switches
between an up state in which spiking occurs and a down state in which it does
not. Excitation produced five different PRC shapes, which could not be
explained with such a simple model. A separate dendritic compartment was
required to separate the mechanism that generates the up and down phases of the
bursting envelope (1) from synaptic inputs applied at the soma, (2) from axonal
spike generation and (3) from a slow process with a slower time scale than
burst generation. This study reveals that due to the nonlinear properties and
compartmentalization of ionic channels, the response to excitation is more
complex than inhibition.
