---
title: "EEG Feedback-Controlled Transcranial Alternating Current Stimulation"
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: 'Boyle, M.R.; Frohlich, F., "EEG feedback-controlled transcranial
alternating current stimulation," Neural Engineering (NER), 2013 6th
International IEEE/EMBS Conference on , vol., no., pp.140,143, 6-8 Nov. 2013'
authors: 
 - name: Michael Boyle
 - name: Flavio Frohlich
link: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/icp.jsp?arnumber=6695891
---

Transcranial Alternating Current Stimulation (tACS) is a novel non-invasive
brain stimulation modality. tACS passes weak, oscillating electric currents
through the scalp to generate electric fields in the cerebral cortex. tACS has
been shown to modulate both cortical oscillations and cognitive function in
humans. These findings suggest that tACS is a promising neurotherapeutic for
the treatment of psychiatric illnesses with aberrant underlying cortical
dynamics such as schizophrenia. Due to the complexity of the network dynamics
in brains of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders, it is unlikely that the
feedforward application of tACS without neuronal feedback will be sufficient to
effectively control the pathological network dynamics. To our knowledge, no
successful EEG-based feedback brain stimulation with tACS has been reported to
date. We here present an EEG feedback-controlled tACS system that controls
cortical state dynamics. We used occipitoparietal stimulation in the gamma
frequency band (40 Hz) in response to the endogenous alpha frequency activity
in the visual cortex. We found that EEG feedback-controlled 40 Hz tACS (FB
tACS) was more effective at controlling the amplitude of alpha-band cortical
oscillations than dose-matched randomly-administered 40 Hz tACS (RA tACS). Our
novel system therefore represents an important step towards the development of
individualized therapeutic brain stimulation that is based on feedback control. 
