---
title: "Minimum Energy Control for In Vitro Neurons"
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: 'Ali Nabi and Tyler Stigen and Jeff Moehlis and Theoden Netoff.
"Minimum energy control for in vitro neurons." 2013 J. Neural Eng. 10 036005'
authors: 
 - name: Ali Nabi
 - name: Tyler Stigen
 - name: Jeff Moehlis
 - name: Tay Netoff
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1741-2560/10/3/036005
---

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the applicability of optimal control theory for
designing minimum energy charge-balanced input waveforms for single
periodically-firing in vitro neurons from brain slices of Long-Evans rats.  

APPROACH: The method of control uses the phase model of a neuron and does not
require prior knowledge of the neuron's biological details. The phase model of
a neuron is a one-dimensional model that is characterized by the neuron's phase
response curve (PRC), a sensitivity measure of the neuron to a stimulus applied
at different points in its firing cycle. The PRC for each neuron is
experimentally obtained by measuring the shift in phase due to a short-duration
pulse injected into the periodically-firing neuron at various phase values.
Based on the measured PRC, continuous-time, charge-balanced, minimum energy
control waveforms have been designed to regulate the next firing time of the
neuron upon application at the onset of an action potential.  

MAIN RESULT: The designed waveforms can achieve the inter-spike-interval
regulation for in vitro neurons with energy levels that are lower than those of
conventional monophasic pulsatile inputs of past studies by at least an order
of magnitude. They also provide the advantage of being charge-balanced. The
energy efficiency of these waveforms is also shown by performing several
supporting simulations that compare the performance of the designed waveforms
against that of phase shuffled surrogate inputs, variants of the minimum energy
waveforms obtained from suboptimal PRCs, as well as pulsatile stimuli that are
applied at the point of maximum PRC. It was found that the minimum energy
waveforms perform better than all other stimuli both in terms of control and in
the amount of energy used. Specifically, it was seen that these charge-balanced
waveforms use at least an order of magnitude less energy than conventional
monophasic pulsatile stimuli.  

SIGNIFICANCE: The significance of this work is that it uses concepts from the
theory of optimal control and introduces a novel approach in designing minimum
energy charge-balanced input waveforms for neurons that are robust to noise and
implementable in electrophysiological experiments.  
