---
title: 'Tonic current through GABAA receptors and hyperpolarization-activated
cyclic nucleotide-gated channels modulate resonance properties of rat subicular
pyramidal neurons'
layout: post
categories: papers

reference: "Sah, N. & Sikdar, S. K. Tonic current through GABAA receptors and
hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels modulate resonance
properties of rat subicular pyramidal neurons. Eur J Neurosci 40, 2241–2254
(2014)"
authors: 
 - name: Sah
 - name: Sikdar
link: "http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/ejn.12581"
---

The subiculum, considered to be the output structure of the hippocampus,
modulates information flow from the hippocampus to various cortical and
sub-cortical areas such as the nucleus accumbens, lateral septal region,
thalamus, nucleus gelatinosus, medial nucleus and mammillary nuclei. Tonic
inhibitory current plays an important role in neuronal physiology and
pathophysiology by modulating the electrophysiological properties of neurons.
While the alterations of various electrical properties due to tonic inhibition
have been studied in neurons from different regions, its influence on intrinsic
subthreshold resonance in pyramidal excitatory neurons expressing
hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels is not
known. Using pharmacological agents, we show the involvement of α5βγ GABAA
receptors in the picrotoxin-sensitive tonic current in subicular pyramidal
neurons. We further investigated the contribution of tonic conductance in
regulating subthreshold electrophysiological properties using current clamp and
dynamic clamp experiments. We demonstrate that tonic GABAergic inhibition can
actively modulate subthreshold properties, including resonance due to HCN
channels, which can potentially alter the response dynamics of subicular
pyramidal neurons in an oscillating neuronal network.
