---
title: New Website
layout: docpost
category: news
---

We now have a new website. It's not quite feature-rich yet, but it's a nice, fresh site to coincide with the long-planned release of RTXI 2.0. Look here in the future for all documentation, tutorials, videos, etc. related to using RTXI and closed-loop, real-time electrophysiology in general. 
While not complete, the new site got a few things ready that we think you'll like:  

1. [**The Modules Page:**](/modules/) the old site contained a modules page that was perpetually out-of-date relative to current RTXI development. The new page is autogenerated by pulling directly from our GitHub repos, so they'll stay up-to-date. It also has a search feature absent from GitHub's own site.  
2. [**The Papers Page:**](/papers/) built with the restraint of a 5-year-old kid with a free pass to an all-you-use Javascript plugin candy store, the papers page will give you picture of just how many people have used RTXI over the years and what they did with it.  
3. [**Documentation:**](/docs/) all our documentation is easier to find and all accessible from a single page. At any rate, it'll be easier to find what you need this way than it would be to search through pages of Wordpress blog posts.  
4. **It's Lighter and Faster:** this is mostly for my gratification, but the new site is leaner and faster than the old one.  

If there's something on the old site that you used that's gone now, just let us know. We'll get it back for you. There are [lots of ways to contact us](/contact/). Thanks.
